R is the leading programming language for statistics and data analysis.
One of the main advantages of using R is that we can
build up an analysis line-by-line encode.
We can save all of our work in a file and go
back to see what we investigated at a later date.
Having R Scripts allows you to easily share your work with others,
and you can see what others are doing with data.
R also has over 2,000 user contributed packages that increase its functionality.
Now, one of the main packages we'll use throughout this course is ggplot2.
Ggplot2 is a graphics package that lets us create
plots and graphs with just a few commands.
We'll learn more about ggplot in the next lesson.
But just to give you a taste of it,
here's an example of a plot you can create.
Now, don't worry about memorizing or understanding all of this code.
You'll have plenty of practice with this later in the course.
I just want to show you how a few lines of code can create amazing graphics.
I'm going to load up the ggplot library and a color library,
then I'm going to load the diamonds dataset.
With this function, I'll create a scatter plot.
Let's check out this plot in detail.
This plot shows the relationship between price and carat
of almost 54,000 round cut diamonds.
I'd say R is doing very well for such few lines of code.
The last thing I want to mention is that you can use R anywhere.
It's free open source software that works on any operating system.
As a result of this,
R has a large, active,
and growing community of users.